Hi there. In this video, I'm gonna show
you how to use the redirection commands, the
angle brackets, and the pipe command, which is
the vertical bar, to do some interesting things
with your input and output for your files
and your programs. So let's let's jump right
in. I happen to be on the Myth
computer with the in a folder where I
have a hello world program. And if I
run the hello world program, it just, prints
out hello world. Okay. Not too, great, confusing
there. And let's say that I wanted to,
print hello world, but I wanted to actually
send it into a file. Well, in Linux,
all you have to do is say hello
and then the, greater than symbol and then
a file name. So, hello output dot t
x t and it doesn't actually show you
anything because all the output is going into
hello output. So if we look at hello
output, then we can see that it now
says hello world. So that's called redirecting to
an output, redirecting standard out as it turns
out. Things that normally get printed from your
program go into the output file that you
redirect it to. Okay, so that's fairly simple.
You can do the reverse as well. Oh,
and by the way, that right angle bracket
should look somewhat familiar in the sense that
it looks it's it's reminiscent of c out,
although c out uses two angle brackets. So
let's actually go back to another folder that
I have called add two numbers. And in
add two numbers, let me show you the
actual code. If you look at add two
numbers, it basically just reads in two doubles
and it ends up adding them together and
printing the results out. Not too hard. Okay,
and if we actually run it, it says
the program will add two doubles, please enter
a double 24.6 and let's see let's do
another one, 19.4 or something like that. And
the sum in this case is 44 so
that's pretty simple. Now what if you wanted
to have your program actually read in data?
Let's say you were testing your program and
you didn't wanna type the numbers in, you
could do the following. You could have an
input file. In fact, I have one here
called two numbers dot TXT, and, there are
two numbers in there. And if I say
add two numbers and then I say, oh,
read in from two numbers dot t x
t with the less than character, any input
that the program requires, it will look for
it in two numbers dot t x t.
Now you have to make sure that the
input file is properly formatted to give you
exactly the type of input that you're looking
for. But but this is the way you
actually read it in. Okay. So let's see
what happens when we run this. Okay. It
actually says this program will add you doubles
and it says please enter a double and
then nothing. And then please enter a double
and then nothing and then the sum is
42. No returns or anything. That's because the
the shell actually forwards the information, the numbers
to your program, and then it does the
printing on the screen, and you're bypassing that
step by using the less than to actually
read in from the file. So your output
will not necessarily look exactly the way you
think it should, but rest assured that the
input is going into your file. Now in
CS one zero seven, we rarely use input
this way. We rarely ask the user to
actually type anything for our programs. We generally
do it from if we wanna read something
in, will use a file. So we'll learn
about that as the course goes along, about
how to read from a parameter. So in
that case, would be something like add two
numbers and then it would be num one
and num two or something like that. Or
it would be a file, like that's one
way to do it or it would be
some, you know, two numbers dot txt and
it would read it in. Would not work
now because there's no didn't build that into
the program. So that's that's how you use
the redirection commands. Now a somewhat related command,
but actually in fact a much more powerful
command is the pipe command, which is the,
it's the vertical bar. And what it does
is it allows you to do something like
this. L s dash a l, gives you
a listing like this. But what if I
wanted just the last last line, like the
last file in here? In fact, let's say
I do that my favorite command l s
a l s a l r t, which
says which files were last in line. Okay?
Or were most recently changed. Okay? In fact,
let's just do it this way. L s
dash just l r t, so we don't
have the the special files in there. Okay?
So in fact, two numbers would be the
last one. Well, what I can do is
I can use this pipe command that says
take the output of LS and send it
while line by line to some other program.
Right? So many times you'll you'll do this.
Let's say I wanted to find out how
many files I had. I could use a
program called word count, w c, which counts
how many lines there are in the in
a file that it gets passed. Right? So
in this case, l s dash l r
t will then get piped into word w
c and it will say, in this case,
it'll actually be wrong by one because it'll
say, it'll count the total 12 line up
here and then it will count the one,
two, three, four, actually, it should say five
if this works right. Yep. There we go.
If I do l s dash one, that
would actually do. L s dash one just
lists the files and then w c would
actually say four, four lines and let's see,
62 is the characters. I think it's words,
lines, characters. Actually, might be the other way
around. Sorry, it's lines, words, characters. So in
this case, happen to have the same number
of words as lines because they just printed
one word per line. But that's how you
use the pipe command. You can actually do
it, you can pipe as many things as
you want through here. So you can let's
let's just do another example here. There is
a command called cut, which says take a
line and break it up by one character.
It's not for full strings, it's just for
one character. So if I say cut and
then dash d and period, That will say,
the delimiter that I'm cutting on is the
period character. And then if I say dash
f two, actually, let's just do f one,
it will say print the first column of
all the broken up lines. So if there
are many periods in there, it would print
just the first column. Okay. This would actually
be nice to do on our, file list
if we didn't want the extensions for instance.
Right. So if I just do cut dash
d period dash f one and then start
typing things like add to numbers dot c.
Well, if I hit return, it actually just
cuts out the dot c and it gives
me the first field when I break it
up by the period. So it's kind of
nice. If I did another one, a b
c dot d e f, well, guess what?
A b c. Okay. Well, what's nice is
you can run that on a file, but
you could also do l s dash one
and then pipe through to the cut command,
cut dash d period dash f one, and
guess what? It stripped all the lines of
our file like that. Okay? Now, what if
I wanted to know, how many let's what
if I just wanted the last one? Okay.
There's a command called tail and tail actually
gives you the last 10 on by default
lines in a file. So if I do
dash tail dash n one, it will just
give me the last line. A, C, D,
E, F, G, H, I, and then I
end it, it just gives me the last
line, G, H, I. Okay? So watch this.
L s dash one cut dash d period
dash f one and then tail dash n
one says, okay, give me a directory of
just the file names. Pass that to the
cut file and just give me the first
field when I when I, have a delimiter
of a period and then give me just
the last line. Okay. When I run that,
it will say two numbers. Right? Because it
did first got to all the files, two
numbers was the last one. It it cut
out the, took off the extension and then
just gave me the last line in that.
So you can pipe these files through there
all you want. Now I have an interesting
example here. If you use the w get
command, the w get command actually allows you
to, read in a file or capture a
file from a website. It actually just downloads
it. Right? And it's probably gonna be an
HTML file because that's what most files on
the Internet are. But, I happen to have
a one queued up here although I'm just
looking at it and it's pretty long. Www.payrolles.musique.com/parolestailorswift,
I can spell swift underscore or rather dash
look what you make me do lyrics. I
understand this is what the kids are watching
these days or listening to these days, comma,
p one nine two seven two four. Alright.
That will actually pull the file down. If
I have dash o, it it will put
it into a particular file for me, a
nice easy to remember look dot HTML file.
And if I typed it right, it says
connected and it says all this stuff and
says waiting response and it actually pulled it
down. Now if we look at look. Html,
well it's a bunch of HTML and JavaScript
and so forth, but somewhere up here it
actually and it's way up at the near
the top I think there. Is that it?
I think that's it right there. There we
go. So this is the actual lyrics and
but it's got all this other HTML in
there. So I thought I'd write a little
command that I did practice this, I don't
know this one off the top of my
head, to actually in one line strip out
just the, details of the lyrics. Alright? So
watch this. You can use a command called
sed, which actually, allows you to pull out,
it'll actually allow you to change, particular words
in a file, but it'll also allow you
to find something and then print the rest
of the file. Okay? So if I do
sed and then this command, it looks like
this, I d equals lyrics. Remember, I've already
looked through the, the command. And then I
say, a couple other incantations here that says
basically, don't, or just just start typing at
the AirDart start printing out after it finds
that ID lyrics. That happens to be the
line right before the start of the lyrics.
So if I just type this command, I'm
gonna clear the screen and type this command.
And you can see it'll print out a
whole bunch of stuff, but then right at
the top is just the beginning of the
lyrics except for that first line there. The
rest of it is just the lyrics. Now
what else in this lyrics? Well, first of
all, I wanna get rid of this this
line here. So it actually what I can
do is I can run this command. I
just hit the up arrow key, by the
way. I can pipe this through tail dash,
n plus two. Oops. It's not actually looking
nice on my screen here. It's maybe a
let me reset the thing here. Okay. Let
me try this again. Tail dash n and
then if I do plus two, it will
give me the entire thing minus the first
line. So it'll start on line two as
it turns out and, it didn't work. Let
me see why that's the case. Oh, you
know, let's see. Tail dash n plus two.
It actually should work. Don't know why it
didn't do that. Well, let's keep going on.
Oh, there it goes. Yeah. There it goes.
So it got I don't know why it
didn't do it that time, but there it
goes. The first line of our file is
the end, or the first line of the
lyrics. Okay. So now we're we're there. Now
we can say, okay, let's get rid of
those pesky b r and that div command
that, if you if you saw it, that's
actually located in there too. Well, I'll just
use another sed command. And I'll say sed
replace. Oh, here we go again with the
weird characters here. Sed let me reset it
again. Sometimes it actually, does this. Okay. Let's
do sed and then s slash b r,
which is what we're trying to remove and
remove all of them in the file on
each line. And then we're also gonna remove
the, div as well. And these are all
like commands you can learn to to do
but the whole point is that I'm piping
each command through the next one. Right? And
then I'm going to, actually use another said
command to find the last part of the
after the lyrics, the first line after the
lyrics and then remove everything from then on.
Okay? So this should, let's see, act like
this and that and then that will almost
work. Right, it will almost work but now
we need to, you'll see what happens when
we do this. Maybe we won't, let's see
unknown option, let's see, said there, there. Let's
see. That one, that one looks right, let's
do this let's do one at a time
and see which one I screwed up. Let's
see it might be the let's try that
let's try the BR one and the DIV
one and see what happens. Nope, same problem.
So maybe it's that one so it's there.
Oh, there we go, okay. So now let's
see if I can retype this correctly. SED
oh I know what I did. SED and
then let's see it's going to be it's
going to be s slash that there we
go I missed a missed a character on
there and then said class equals CONTActQ like
that and that should if I did it
right here, that should go all the lyrics
except the last line is still there so
if I do the whole command again and
then pipe it through head this time dash
n dash one which says give me the
first lines but except for the last one.
Then look what it did. Right? So one
liner, now again I had to look through
this and it took me a little while
to figure out, but one liner took that
whole crazy HTML file and turned it into
just the lyrics from the the thing. And
then we can also if you want, we
can continue this. We could say, okay, now
count all the lines that actually say look.
Actually, just count all the lines. Alright. Just
give me the number of lines. Okay. 69
lines in the output and if we say
just look for the ones that actually say
have look in them and count those lines,
that is 26. So 26 out of the
69 lines are have look in them. So,
that seems like a fair percentage of lines
that have look in them. Alright. If we
just wanted to see them all, we could
take up the word count and just say,
oh, look. There's all the lines that have
the the look in there. Alright. So that
is the pipe and the redirection commands that
you can use if you get a little
bit more involved into Unix. Thanks.